From Hansel minutes.com it's Hansel
minutes or weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
one Oh six. Recorded live
Monday, March 24th, 2008. Support for inflammation
it's just provided by Tellerik
RD controls. Memo's comprehensive suite
of components for windows forms
and asp.net web applications online@wwwdottelerik.com.
Support is also provided by.net
developers journal. The world's leading.net
developer magazine online at www
dot  dot com. In
this episode, Scott sits down
with Vinod and Vencat's two
Microsoft regional directors and gets
their inside perspective on outsourcing
Scott Hanselman. And this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
and I'm sitting here at
mix Oh eight, and we're
going to be talking about
outsourcing. I've got Venkat from
Chennai and Vinod from Delhi
and these gentlemen, both own
companies that do work overseas.
And they're based in these
respective cities. And we were
talking in the hallway a
moment ago about outsourcing and
as someone who's an American,
I have a lot of
interest in this because certainly
I want my country to
do well, but at the
same time I want the
world to do well. And
I thought it was interesting
that I had read somewhere
that getting a condo in
downtown Bangalore was about $250,000
and it's U S dollars.
And I could go and
buy a condo, maybe even
two condos in my hometown
for that much money. Why
would I outsource if the
cost overseas is so much
more now? Yeah, it's true.
The cost is increasingly India.
That's one of the challenges.
Both of us ran small
outfits in India and the
biggest cost for us as
the rising salary cost. But
I think over the years
as the industry is maturing,
what lapping is, it's the
niche players who will survive.
So it is not for
the cost reasons you outsource
to India, but you will
outsource for the speciality, the
niche. And then at the
other end of the spectrum,
you'll outsource for the scale.
The big Indian companies today
can give you these scales,
which are not possible, which
are only possible probably by
the big names like Accentures
and the ABMS. So you
want scale. You want like
500 people to be put
on a project, then you
will go to India to
outsource. So the game will
change from cost to niche
speciality and to scale. Now
it seems, it seems to
me though, and forgive me
if you find this to
be a, I don't mean
to insult, but I find
that Americans are, and I'm
making a broad statement here
sometimes more creative, but less
raw horsepower analytical than, than,
than people from overseas is
that as a result of
education, I know that America
values into independent thinking. And
you know, you're a unique
snowflake, maybe a little bit
more than the raw analytical
horsepower that other country's educational
systems. Yep. There's nothing of
course insulting about this because
it's more a fact and
different cultures work differently. My
observation purely is the amount
of risk taking and the
encouragement, the society, the family
friends gives an America has
lot more than in India.
I can talk about our
personal experiences. When I started
my company, many people looked
at me, why are you
starting this? Why can't you
just go to a job?
And today jobs in India,
we might be very handsome.
I had $50,000, $200,000 a
year. Our jobs you can
easily get in India. It's
not unheard of five years
before it would have been
crazy. And last week I
was in my college where
I did my engineering and
the college principal was saying,
one of the biggest problems
they are facing is like
the third year, it's a
four year course. Third year,
the people are getting their
campus interviews done and they
are getting a job. So
they are losing interest from
the actual education because he
has actually got a job
much before he finishes it.
So the principal says that
the third year he hasn't
even graduated is going to
earn much more than me.
So that's the challenge. So
coming back to your question,
the way our education system
has been structured traditionally is
been valuing on the actual
memory and reciting it correctly.
That's the way I think,
slowly it's changing and kind
of taking the best of
both worlds, taking that. And
the American way of education
is also slowly coming in
and more people. Now we
see a lot of people
coming back from us back
to India. They are bringing
in that creative thinking also.
So no more, you're not
look crazy if you start
a company in India anymore.
So things are changing, but
traditionally it's been value is
given more for the art
core memory and doing tightens
the , Dan creativity, Dan
experimenting. Yeah. Yeah. In fact,
one of the things that
I'd like to add on
to that is that yes,
creativity is something that I
think we are a little
behind America. We are great
implementers. So if, if Americans
give us the creative idea,
I think Indians implement implemented
very, very well, but out
of the box coming and
thinking and coming up with
ideas, not, not very good.
And I, as, as when
could very rightly put it,
I think a part of
it, a blame, or if
you want to call it
is the education system. It's
good in some ways, because
we are very good engineers.
We are very good, you
know, implementers, but in terms
of thinking out of the
box, that's not really stressed
upon in our education system
when industrially certainly there Indians
and People, you know, I'm
not saying that America has
it all locked up when
it comes to creativity, but
it definitely seems like you're
not encouraged from an educational
perspective. I mean, I went
to the, I went to
a public school in the
U S and there was
always this notion of a
few expressing yourself creatively. And
I think in high school,
we only went up as
far as precalculus. So when
we came out as an
18 or 19 year old,
we had done just the
basics of pre-calculus. Now there
are what are called AP
courses or advanced placement where
kids that showed a, a
propensity towards math could have
potentially gone and started doing
college courses in when they
were 18. So you could
potentially come out of a
Fort, you know, of a
four year high school degree
at, at 18 with some
understanding of calculus. And at
what level, or do you
learn these things in an
Indian school system? I, our
high schools, I think when
we come out of school,
we we're experts in it
calculus. Otherwise we don't pass
it of school, especially if
taking the science courses really.
So if you've taken sciences
and even if you're doing
something like biology, which has
probably very little to do
with maths, you still do
a lot of calculus in
that. So we have taken
computers. You, you better be
a rocket scientist. So Now
is it still based on
the old levels, a levels
system, like the British colonial
system of education, or is
that changed? That option? Yeah,
It's still there, but we
have our own central board
of secondary education, a couple
of other boards as well,
but this, this option is
still there. How do you
gentlemen think that the, the
echoes of colonialism are affecting
both the, the political structure
and kind of like, you
know, the societal structure, but
also the, the way people
feel about themselves. I mean,
has India come into its
own and finally pushed the
shackles off? Well, the youth,
I mean, you know, our
generation would probably be the
last ones to have that
colonial. I don't know the
throwback. Yeah. That's probably my
mindset because of our parents,
because they have seen that
and, you know, pass that
on. But since we haven't
seen it, we only have
a second hand, you know,
second hand interaction with this
colonial thing. So our kids
will probably not have that
at all. The youth does
not have that at all
these days. Yep. I think
that that is very little
leftovers of the colonialism. It's
been like more than 60
years now, but you still
find it. And the way
the government functions and levy
the education system over our
lists. But I think India's,
India's very good at adapting.
Anything more than any in
any of the occupiers you've
even if you see the
more girls who came down
and started going to India,
they became more Indianized. So
even if Baeza comes to
India, does he need East?
So it's the people earlier
about 10, 15 years back
when globalization came to India,
they were worried that globalization
will take or will corrupt
India. But I think it's
more the globalization that is
getting, if you want to
use corruption by India, it's
getting influenced. I would say
definitely, by the way, India,
you are celebrating the Valley
and having Curry in the
British parliament. That's how the
influences is going. And I
think it's everything is India.
Not only takes it up
and makes its own. So
I think you, even, if
you say the garment parliament
system is British, I think
the vein Spiderman system is
like, excellent. So one of
the things I keep jokingly
telling my friends or us
should be outsourcing its elections
to India because we run
it for a billion people
and we don't have a
problem of people not knowing.
And these are illiterate people
like 40 to 50% of
those wards Put a picture
of who's on the ballot
symbol For each candidate, the
party that he represents that
will be elephants. That will
be boxers. That will be
kite pin X. See, we
would have two pieces of
paper, one with a picture
of an elephant moment, picture
of a donkey. Yes. Even
in bibs. So people correctly
would, so you go to
an illiterate person and you
say, Oh, you ordered four.
He says, exactly this the
party I wanted to vote.
This is the symbol I
ordered for them. And last,
I think last 10 or
12 years, we are only
doing electronic voting. And in
few hours we get the
results. And remember, we are
talking about an election where
700 million people more than the
U S population. Yeah. And
it's amazing. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin, the producer of Hansel
minutes with a message from
Tellerik. Do you know how
to build web 2.08 Jack's
applications with web 1.0 components,
right? You just can't in
order to have next generation
web apps, you need next
generation components. And that's exactly
what our friends at Tellerik
have for you. Their upcoming
product code name, rad controls
Prometheus's is a huge pack
of web controls built on
top of Microsoft ASP, net,
Ajax, which will add previously
impossible performance in interactivity to
your next project. Just listen
to this. The new controls
mirror, the ASP net Ajax
API. So development is straight
forward. Client scripts are shared.
So loading time is pretty
much instant. And if you
just set a couple of
properties, you'll be able to
automatically bind to web services
for even more efficient operation.
After all the facts speak
for themselves, the new rad
editor for ASP net Ajax
loads up to four times
faster than before. Similarly, rad
grid handles thousands of records
in mere milliseconds. But again,
it's best to try for
yourself visit tellerik.com/asp net Ajax,
and download a trial. And
don't forget to thank them
for supporting Hansel minutes. No,
you bring up an interesting
point though. We've, we've spoken
about people making $50,000, a
hundred thousand dollars in, in
India, living in quarter of
a million dollar condos, but
then you just spoke of
illiterate. People do there, there
is a societal cast system,
the classic kind of, you
know, Brahm and through untouchable
system in India that is
still applied. Whether people acknowledge
it or not, it's still
exists. But now don't you
think that there is a
parallel economic system? I mean,
we're talking about people living
on a dollar a month
and people living on a
hundred thousand dollars. Don't you
think that there's going to
be a pretty significant more
than in any other countries
schism between the haves and
the have nots. Let's see,
one of the difference between
probably about between China and
India yet is the value.
The economy actually drills down
a lot more in India.
That's my personal opinion Because
you mean it drills down,
trickled It trickle down. So
if somebody is earning 10,000,
$20,000 a year, he gets
a driver. See, one of
the most difficult people to
recruit in India in the
urban cities is a driver
is a child chattier to
drive you and chauffeur Chaffer
to drive you. And they
are very expensive. Their salaries
are like doubled or tripled
in the last few years.
And you have maids. You
have people who help you
and the ecosystem, the money
actually drills down, trickle down.
You're a Reagan economic you're
you believe in Reaganomics, Ronald Reagan
believed in this notion of
trickle down kind of, but
not, you know, when the
success at one level trickles
down to the entire system
and everyone wins, It definitely
happens. And there's also a
cultural difference in India. People
don't like to show off
the belt in general, even
if you're wealthy, you don't
show off that Except when
you get married. Yes. Because
I think that people who
make a dollar a month
don't rent an elephant. Yes.
Okay. So that trickle effect
is happening. And one of
the biggest challenges is how
do you help the rural
economy recently? In one of
the DBS, I read like
60% of Indian population resides
in the rural, but then
only 38% of them actually
are into agriculture. So you
have like 72% or 62%
of people who are in
rural city, rural area, but
are not doing agriculture. How
do you keep them employed?
That's the biggest challenge in
front of the government? Two
thirds of people who live
in rural areas are not
actively farming. Yes. What are
they doing? Well, they do
a lot of other activities.
In fact, we were involved
in government of India program,
which right now has run
into a controversy for other
reasons, which was meant to
give employment to a lot
of people, employment for things
like building roads are, you
know, creating canals. So the
government was supposed to do
this and it went on
for quite awhile. But recently,
very recently, in fact, as
recently as last week, there
was some controversy about irregularities
in that system. But a
lot of people are sitting
in an employed. A lot
of people Are doing a
daily wages work in that.
So in fact, when you
talk about this large chasm
between the haves and the
have nots, it's mostly in
the metropolitan areas. I think
the six 66 big cities
in India, the rest of
India is still in that.
Well, not rural, but semi-urban
to rural just outside of
town. Right? Exactly. Exactly. Yeah.
Interestingly again, one of the
biggest phenomenon in India, which
is happening is the retail
retail, boom. Walmart decided with
a local partner in India
to do retails. And initially,
even as recently as three,
four years, we ourselves were,
well, we were skeptical about
our retail will work. There's
political backlash saying that retail
is an MNC, an organized
thing, taking over the smaller
mom and pop shops, which
actually gives about 80, 90%
of the people in rural
urban areas. Everyone in India
owns a mom and pop
shop. Yeah, Yes. Kind of.
And they're pretty successful in
that. And so there was
a huge dark on that
political backlash, but one of
the things that are now
emerging is the rural people
are also adapting. They have
this need for organized retail.
So a popular chain in
India is called pantaloons. They
are part of a future
group. One of the, in
the Kesha Biani is their
CEO. He talks about in
his book saying the retail
outlets in ruler actually do
much more turnovers than some
of their urban outlet turnover
of product. They move more
product. Yes. And they say,
and he says, it's not
the same package stuff that
excelled there, but I sell
oil and loose. Meaning you
can bring a bottle by
oil, they will just measure
it and pour it down.
So it's not in the
packet. It's not about hygiene.
Hygiene is important. You're saying
that they provide services that
a large place just can't
effectively provide. Correct. So what
he says is we are
organized, but we have to
be tailored, right? What's happening.
That's what's happening to retail
in the U S that
when a retailer comes in
and they commoditize something, then
a small amount and pop
shop provides a specialty, provide
special service or attentiveness. They
say that we'll we'll, we
answer the phone when you
call us as opposed to
you getting a recording. And
then of course there's a
back and forth as retail
tries to make that happen.
Sure. In fact, one of
the cultures that have very
recently come up, I think
in the, probably in the
last two years is the
model culture. Something that's been
around in us for awhile.
And in the last two
years, if you see India
has had so many models
come up, my city that
I live in Gorgon, which
is a suburb of Delhi
has already something like 17
huge models. And, and well,
it's a suburb of Delhi,
but you go to almost
any semi urban city. Now
it has a large mall
with probably all the international
brands that you can think
of Nike and Adidas and
Reebok. And everybody's there McDonald's.
So you get French fries,
even in a small little
tiny city. So that's, you
know, that that globalization culture
has already come in and
everybody is aware of it.
And everybody is Taking part
in that as, as, as,
as citizens of your, of
your nation. What do you,
do you feel that the,
the kind of the Metta
virus of America's Mehta culture
has infected your culture? I
mean, do you really think
that once every single square
inch of this planet is
covered in malls and I
can buy a coach bag
in any city in the
world? That that's a good
thing. I mean, I mean,
malls are opening and closing
retails, like retail space in
America right now is, is
that the inventory is at
an all time high. And
it's something like 25% of
retail spaces, wide open there's
buildings going up. And then
they'll sit there for months
with a, for lease sign,
because we got a little
ahead of ourselves. It seems
to me like, this is
not a sustainable system, and
now we're exporting it to
you guys. It makes me
sad if you're telling me
the small town you live
in is a yes, Absolutely.
I mean, what you said
is absolutely right. I mean,
we, as I said again,
17 miles and you know,
probably a 20 square kilometer,
A city, how many people
in your city In, in
Google? Probably about few million.
We've gotten a million in
Portland where I live and
we've got maybe four good
malls, but there's at least
30, 40 miles between each
one. I mean, they're really
spread out. Yeah. And inside
those malls, there's a lot
of places going out of
business, Right. This is a
20 square kilometer in a
suburb of new Delhi and
17 miles. Many of them
are sitting MTM as a,
you know, as, as you
rightly put it. But to
answer the second part of
your question, whether I think
that it's getting infected well,
infection is too strong a
word, but yes, there are.
I think, I think, Well,
it's a bit of a
rash more than that infection,
but it's a big it's
spreading. Yeah. It is spreading.
Some things are good because
hopefully what we can do
is pick up the good
parts of it. We have
done that before, as, as
vinca mentioned, right. From McGill
times and recently up to
the masala pizzas that we
have. So, you know, we
do adapt and we do
pick up the good things
from, from, you know, whoever
invades us in different ways,
But you're picking up consumerism.
Yes. Then that's different. I
mean, you can pick up,
you can, you can make
a Curry pizza and you
can take the sacred cows
out of the hamburger. But
ultimately though you are now
consuming and throwing away. I
think it's, it's more a
short term thing that these
mile models are coming up
in India. But over a
period it'll stabilize that is
a huge need for 20,
30 years. People didn't have
this, so they wanted all
this. They didn't have it.
So everybody's just rushing to
it. And the matter shall
kind of equally equal itself
to want is a very,
very Strong. Yes. And, but
I think a consumerism, you
pointed out that brings in
a very interesting thing. Every
time when I come to
the U S one of
the things that it's me
is the amount of food
that you get everywhere. And
the amount of food you're
waste because in my culture,
right, from my school days,
my mother will kill me.
Even if I waste something
in the dinner or in
the lunch we had, we
were made to value each
and every race piece that
we get in the table,
but yet in the U
S that's, that's something that
really scares me, worries me
when I have to eat
something and throw away the
rest 50%, that really troubled.
So the reason I'm saying
that, so even if miles
come to India, they will
be over a period adapted
to the Indian way of
doing things. Interesting. Interesting. How
do you feel from, from
your country looking into ours,
do you feel sympathetic when
you see on the news
that Americans feel that, that
you're taking jobs and do
you feel that we're taking
jobs from you? I don't
think so. Because in a
globalized world, these things will
happen at over a period.
I think it is for
the good. So overall, I
think even if you look
at the U S economy
with the oil prices, going
with VOD, everything, the still
the economy is growing or
what all the world is
alts while the economy is
also growing. So globalization definitely
works in the short terms.
We have to give some
price, but I think that's
where the local governments can
control and save God the
people's short term interest or
the long term. So it
kind of from India, looking
at the U S it's
more neutral because as it
sets out 70%, 80% of
the people don't even have
an impact on us or
what happening that, but the
knew about us. So it's
definitely that opinion will be
not neutral because they are
not affected by any of
the things that happen. Well,
I really appreciate you guys
taking a moment to sit
down with me today. I
appreciate both of your perspectives,
and this has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again next week.
Thank you. Thank you.